Messages they just have a message section.
I don't like how it's separated out because on here it's like it's separate it out to where you have
to go to your messages section to message them and every time they message you it shows up in your message
section.
It just doesn't make sense to me that separate it out.
But one advantage though is that you don't have to go through finding your project finding the person
finding the screen send them a message you can just do this and send it to whoever you want.
Or you know someone that you've hired in the past or someone you've communicated with in the past could
just send them a message.
Get to work etc. etc. that can be a little bit helpful.
It's similar to Lance and it is in this out as well.
You have the ability to search for freelancers in jobs that kind of the same logic applies to you Lance
freelancers great if you want to search for individual people.
So like we used an example before let's search for Twilio in your search for jobs you knew the same
thing and you can borrow their their specifications or adopt some of the things they use that you like.
I like the ability to drill down on oDesk a little bit more than Elance and I'll show you why they just
give you a lot more control so I can just do a slider and how much I want to pay.
If you don't want to pay more than $20 an hour and my hours build I can set how long they've you know
how many they've they've built.
This is a big one for me.
You can ask by When's the last time that they logged on to oDesk and did something you can't do on elance
you can't do on a freelancer.
So because oDesk tracks their movements a lot more than the other two you can make sure that this person
is active on their system.
You might think that's you know why would I want to know that.
It's actually quite important.
Someone who is active in the system is going to be more responsive it's someone who's not going to disappear
on you and someone you know that when you message at 10:00 p.m. They're or respond by 11:00 p.m. on
elance you don't know if that person made their account it hasn't checked it in six months.
It's kind of impossible to tell sometimes.
And this is also a really cool benefit.
This new contact them they have the green and the yellow and the red dots next to the contact.
So like if I wanted to contact this guy or Rob for it you can see that he replies within a day.
That's awesome for me because I know maybe if I want to hire today or tomorrow I know that I can go
out and recruit people directly.
And I know that they're going to apply roughly within this time and so typically when I go and I recruit
people to my job I will look for the people that have green stars and I just skip or that he will be
yellow in the red unless they have really specific to what I need.
But I can save a lot of time doing that.
This is the way that you message people and recruit people.
I always suggest that when you do a job posting and we'll do this later when we do the dry run when
we go through and make an entire application I like doing this or I can message them and invite in this
case I can create a job specifically for them and if I had a job that was active it would give me a
screen asking to invite them specifically to it.
ODesk Lummis how many people you can invite to your your job.
I think it's like 20 a day.
So but that is quite nice.
Disremembered remember log in every day and get your 20 done because that's dramatically going to increase
your participation for people in your project.
But this is kind of nice.
I can send this person a specific job just for him see what he says.
If he accepts it see if he denies it.
All right.
So the last thing I want to show you is just how you can how Otis streamlines all the information per
freelancer so you can kind of keep track of everything about that person and your relationship with
them.
And I typically find this to be quite useful.
So for me again I have to look for old jobs because I have not been using oDesk.
But here is an example of someone that I hired to do kind of as needed fixes you can tell the guy was
$13 an hour he bills a lot.
He's.
He's outsourced.
I can give you the contract that I had with that person and this is great when you know taxes come around
and you need to keep all your documents together.
But I could see right here.
Here's the feedback that he gave me.
I thought I'd given him feedback as well and I can go through all of our messages and it kind of this
is how much I pay to him and you know this is when I did the contract with them I can send him a message
I can throw them a bonus and I can see now I love this it can actually tell me what time it is where
they are.
Some are on here it also shows you when the last time you logged in was which is quite helpful too because
lot of times over freelancers say Oh I haven't seen it.
The message you sent them and you can also check and see that they've already logged on so that's not
true.
So yeah this is oDesk.
It's definitely something you should add to your lance typically like it's better but a lot of people
have had a really good experience with the oDesk still big wide range of freelancers on here.
I don't think you really go wrong.
Typically though when I look for freelancers I'll post on you Lance and oDesk.
Use them in tandem make sense considering they're actually one merged company.
But yeah I think it's something we're checking out.
Some of you like it more than Elance.
So next on a good idea we're going to freelancer
do.